- Get out of here!
You can't make me
give you the key!
And even if you did,
I wouldn't show you
how to use it!
- What's going on? Are they
fighting about something?
What should I do?
It'd be rude to eavesdrop.
But if they are fighting,
I should try to help,
shouldn't I?
- [yelps]
[groans]
- [gasps]
- [groans]
- Stop it!
What are you doing?!
Let him go!
- There's no need
to be so noisy.
Who are you?
- How could you
treat a kid like that?!
You should--[gasps]
He's not even budging...
even though
he's got thinner arms
and a smaller body than me.
- You take your hands off of me.
- [gags]
- You're weaker than I thought.
I'm surprised
you got into the Corps.
Huh?
That box...
I can sense something's in it.
- [coughing]
- A demon, perhaps?
- What are you hiding in there?
Show me.
[gasps]
- Stay back!
["Kizuna no Kiseki" playing]
♪♪ ♪♪
[singers vocalizing]
- Huh.
Eh?
He snatched him.
- Are you all right?
- [groans] I'm fine!
- You must be dizzy, though.
That's dangerous!
- Get off me!
I--I'm not giving the key
to anyone!
Not even if you torture me!
If I do, you'll only break it!
- Have you been
through torture training?
[both gasp]
- Even most grownups aren't
able to endure through it.
You would never last.
And for your age,
you're exceedingly stupid.
So what if it breaks?
Make another one.
I'm curious. How many people
do you think will perish
in the time you've wasted
rambling about
a bunch of nonsense?
[both gasp]
- That's what it means to keep
a Hashira away from duty.
Whether you like it or not,
a Hashira's time
is worth far more than yours.
If you don't understand,
I'll spell it out.
Swordsmiths
aren't able to fight.
You aren't able to save lives.
Making weapons
is all you're good for.
- [shuddering]
- Now then, the key.
You should know your place
in life and act accordingly.
You're not a baby anymore.
- [gasps]
- What are you doing?
- I just--
I don't know why, but...
I can't stand you!
What gives?!
Why be so cruel?!
You have no right
to talk to a kid like that!
- You think I'm being cruel?
Really?
- Yes, I do! Even though
most of what you said
is probably right and he
can't fight like a Hashira,
swordsmiths are still vital,
and that's a fact!
They might not fight,
but the skills they have
are amazing!
- Without them,
we wouldn't have any swords.
It's thanks to them
that we can fight!
It's true that they need us,
but it's also true
that we need them!
We're all fighting
the same battle here.
Day in and day out,
each in our own way--
- Apologies...
but I don't have time
to waste on your speech.
You understand.
- [gasps]
BOY: What do we do?
I don't know
if I carry him by myself.
- No worries.
I'll carry him back.
As long as he doesn't wake soon.
[Tanjiro groans]
- His eyelids are twitching,
which means he's
gonna wake up any second!
- See you!
- H--Hey!
- [gasps]
- Uh, are you okay?
You shouldn't get up so fast.
- Mr. Haganezuka!
- Eh?
- Was he here just now?
- No! I mean, why would he be?
[hums a tune]
- Really? Thought I heard him.
[gasps] The Hashira!
- I ended up giving him the key,
so he took off.
- So you gave it to him?
I guess
you didn't have a choice.
Well, since I don't know
what's going on,
I shouldn't be making a fuss.
- No, it's okay!
I'm happy.
You don't know me,
but you stood up for me.
Thank you very much!
- I'm sorry I wasn't able
to help much.
Wait, what happened
to that man?
Where'd he go?
- Oh, that was
a Mechanical Doll.
- Mechanical Doll?
- Yeah, and that guy
took it away with him.
You see, he needed the key
in order to make the doll move.
- So that's why
it was important.
- Mm.
- But why does he
want that doll?
- Because it's very special.
Not only can
that Mechanical Doll
overpower a human,
but it's capable
of 108 different moves.
It's often used
for combat training.
- So that's why.
- But now it's--
- [grunts]
- [clang]
- [both gasp]
- Wh--What was that?
- Don't tell me he's already--
This way!
[thrilling music]
♪♪ ♪♪
- Against a Hashira. Amazing.
- Isn't it? It's the battle-type
Mechanical Doll
built by my ancestors...
the Yoriichi Type Zero.
[swords clashing]
- But why does he have six arms?
- Oh, his arms?
I asked the same thing.
According to my father,
that Mechanical Doll
was modeled
after an actual swordsman,
and the only way
they could manage
to replicate
the swordsman's moves
was by giving it six arms.
- [gasps]
That face...
it seems familiar. But why?
About that swordsman,
who exactly was he?
- Uh, sorry, but I don't
really know much about him.
He was
from the Sengoku period.
- S--Sengoku? You mean he lived
more than 300 years ago?
- That's what I was told.
- In all that time, it's never
broken down? Incredible.
- The technology's so advanced.
we're still
not able to catch up to it.
So if it were to break,
there'd be no fixing it.
- [gasps]
- My father
suddenly passed away,
and I have no siblings.
I'm the only one
who can step up now.
But I'm no good
with swords or dolls.
- So that's why you--
I think I get it now.
Wow, he's incredible,
even though
we're around the same age.
He's talented and a Hashira.
- Well, duh!
What did you expect?
- Huh?
- I mean, he is a descendant
of Sun Breathing users,
after all!
That boy is a prodigy,
you know?
He's in a different league
than the likes of you!
[laughs]
- Are you Tokito's crow?
Wait, Sun Breathing?
The first Breathing Style?
So he really is that amazing?
- Hmm!
- But that isn't Sun Breathing,
right?
- Huh?!
- [screams]
- If you don't quit
your yapping,
I'm gonna peck your eyes out!
- Hey, now I remember!
My dream!
Yeah! I saw that man
in my dream!
- Huh? Are you
an idiot or something?
Isn't this
your first time here too?
You sure know
how to make me laugh!
I'll give you that!
You met a warrior
from the Sengoku period?
How old are you, exactly, huh?!
- [muffled grunts]
Listen, I'm sorry.
I--I must be crazy.
- No! No!
I know!
Maybe it's an inherited memory?
People talk about those a lot
in our village.
It isn't
just your physical form
that gets passed on.
Living creatures
pass on their memories too.
- Huh?
- So what you saw in your dream
had to have been
your ancestor's memories!
- That's preposterous,
utterly preposterous!
- How kind of you! Thank you!
- [scoffs]
- I'm Tanjiro. What's your name?
- My name's Kotetsu.
You can just do what I always do
and ignore the mean lady crow.
[both yelp]
- [clatter]
- [both gasp]
- [gasps]
[debris clatters]
- Hey! His armor!
- [shuddering]
- [gasps] Kotetsu!
[wind blows]
[sword slices]
- Kotetsu?
- Kotetsu!
I'll find you.
I've got a good nose!
Even if it's
a bit out of shape.
I think he ran off this way.
[sniffs]
[sighs]
Kotetsu!
How in the world did you
manage to climb up that high?
Come on,
you can't give up on your doll!
I'll do anything I can
to help you out!
What about your future?
- Huh?
- If you try hard now
for your future self,
then a day will come
where you can fight
and stand up for yourself!
- No, it won't.
I'm smart enough to know
that I'm a loser, okay?
Because of me, it's all
gonna end with my generation!
[gasps]
Huh?
Ouchy!
- You cannot give up
and walk away from it.
I really wish you wouldn't
talk about yourself that way.
- He didn't make a sound!
Swordsmen are scary.
- Even if you can't do it,
there will be someone
who will carry on for you.
You have to do what you can
so it gets passed on.
If you fail, maybe your kids
or grandkids will succeed.
- [gasps]
- I want to be the one to put
an end to Muzan Kibutsuji
and to save my sister,
who's been turned into a demon.
I might die
before I fulfill my goals...
- [gasps]
- but I have faith that someone
will carry out my wishes.
The same way we were able to,
when we beat an Upper Rank.
So I know in my heart
that someday
Muzan Kibutsuji will fall.
- [gasps]
- Let's give our all!
- [crying]
I--I couldn't stand
to watch him break the doll.
But that was before.
The combat training
should last until nightfall.
I promise I'll see this
through to the end.
- Yeah!
Really? So you're ten, Kotetsu?
- Yeah.
- My little brother is--
- Huh?
- What? You're already done?
- I'm finished.
It made for good training.
Do I know you?
Oh, that's right.
My sword snapped, so...
- [gasps]
- Huh?
- ...this will do
for the time being.
- [stammers]
- Kotetsu!
[winces]
- There. Now dispose of it.
- Not even a whiff of malice.
He must
not be doing it on purpose.
That being said...
- Hmph!
- ...his crow is oozing
with animosity!
She's so condescending.
What gives?
[gasps] Kotetsu!
[thunder rumbling]
[running footsteps]
[panting]
[gasps]
[sentimental music]
♪♪ ♪♪
[footsteps crunching]
Kotetsu...
let's make sure
and see if it still works.
- [groans]
- [grunts]
[gears clicking]
- Nothing. It must be...
[both gasp]
[mellow music]
- All right!
It's working, Kotetsu!
That's... great.
- Yes, it is, Mr. Tanjiro.
And do you know why?
Because now you can train
with this doll
and become stronger than
that indifferent little jerk.
And you'll have
my full support, no matter what!
[thunder crashes]
- Huh? Wait, right now?
[shrieks]
[shriek echoing]
[gasps]
Whoa!
I'm gonna die!
Six arms is too many!
- There are only five arms!
Since that lousy jerk
broke one off,
it's way easier to beat now.
- [panting]
- Mr. Tanjiro, please,
we need you stronger.
so, next time we see him,
you can say,
"That all you got, you scumbag?"
- [winces]
- "It's time to get a haircut,
seaweed head."
"Pissant! You're ugly,
and your legs are short!"
"Commit seppuku,
you shameless jerk!"
- No! Mr. Kotetsu!
That's going too far!
- You think we should
put his head on public display?
- What? No!
I'm not saying any of that!
- Yes, you are!
- No!
- Please say it! Please?
- [grunting]
- [running footsteps]
[gasps]
Tokito was incredible.
He hardly broke a sweat...
despite being smaller
and younger than me.
I have to train harder
so that I can become stronger!
[gags]
[groaning]
- Come on, Mr. Tanjiro!
Don't tell me that's all
it takes to kill you.
Now come on! Get up!
I'm gonna say it
one more time.
Look at me!
- [groaning]
- All you're doing now
is moving out of habit,
Mr. Tanjiro!
You're not reacting off your
opponent's moves whatsoever.
That's why you're getting beat!
Understand?
Which, in other words,
means you don't even have
the fundamentals
of sword fighting down yet.
It's a miracle you haven't died!
Good thing I'm here
to expose your weak points
until we fix them!
And to give you
some extra motivation,
no food until we're finished!
- Right.
[groans]
- Faster, Mr. Tanjiro!
You gotta pick up the pace!
If that doll wasn't armed
with practice sticks,
you'd be dead!
Get it together!
We're on day five now,
so starting tomorrow,
I'm gonna arm the doll
with swords!
- That is, if I even live
to see day six!
I'm--I'm gonna die!
- No food for you today, either!
- [whimpers]
Mr. Kotetsu's
surprisingly analytical.
But as a swordsmanship
instructor, he was terrible!
- It's like he has no idea...
- Just a second!
- what the limits
of the human body are,
and his brutal training
reflects that.
He's gotten to be so ruthless,
that he'll withhold food
and water if you fall short.
But a human
can only go without water
for three days or so.
- Hmph!
- It's pure tyranny
born out of his ignorance.
[Tanjiro] Luckily, I was able
to survive, thanks to rainfall.
[wails]
All throughout
these harsh training sessions,
I went without water,
without food, without sleep.
[groans]
And then I started to cross
the River to the Afterlife.
I was walking across a bridge,
feeling an indescribable bliss.
Only to get dizzy from hunger
and fall in the river.
The water got darker and darker,
heavier and heavier...
until I felt a strange warmth.
It was almost
like I was being massaged.
When I glanced
towards the bottom of the river,
I saw something shiny,
so I swam towards it
while being massaged.
Oddly enough,
despite being underwater,
I could smell
the shimmering stone.
[gasps]
What is this? This smell?
It's different
than the Opening Thread.
[gasps]
Left side of the head!
Neck.
Right side.
Left side!
Right thigh.
Right shoulder!
[gasps] Now!
[groans]
- There you go!
You finally got one strike in!
Though it was so weak,
I don't think the doll
even flinched!
Congrats! You earned some food!
- [gasps]
Rice balls and pickled plums!
And I want
high-quality gyokuro tea!
[grunting]
Tasty!
Good. Good!
His moves, I see them!
I see them
much better than before,
and I've got
my stamina back now!
Somehow, I can tell by the scent
where he's going to strike!
[dramatic music]
Even better,
I can pick up the scent
faster than the Opening Thread.
♪♪ ♪♪
Yes! I can do it!
I can land a full-strength blow!
[gasps]
But what if it breaks?
- Do it!
- [gasps]
- If it does break...
then I--then I'll just fix it!
- [gasps]
- Mr. Tanjiro,
you're far too kind.
But there's no time to hesitate.
If you do,
it's sure
to cost you your life!
And I don't want that!
What I want is for you
to be the strongest!
- That hurt!
- Mr. Tanjiro!
Are you all right?
- Ow, ow, ow.
S--Sorry. I broke
the sword that you lent me.
- Don't worry about that.
It's okay.
Huh? Hey!
[ominous music]
- Something came out!
K--K--Kotetsu!
Something came out!
What is that?!
- Don't ask me!
It's not like I put it in there!
[singers vocalizing]
- [gasps]
- What could that possibly be?
It's a sword.
But it's gotta be
at least 300 years old, right?
- [gasps]
["Koi Kogare" playing]
♪♪ ♪♪
[page rustles]
- It really suits you, Nezuko!
- Mmm!
[humming a tune]
- You like it, don't you?
- Mmm!
- Now it's time
for a Taisho-era secret!
It's actually about Kotetsu.
They say his face
is such a dead ringer
for the mask he wears,
that in all honesty
he probably doesn't need
to wear a mask at all.
I wonder if it's true.
- [grumbling]
- He might be merciless
when it comes to his training,
but I know that deep down,
he's a sweet kid at heart!
- [chuckles]
- Next, Episode 3,
"A Sword From Over
Three Hundred Years Ago!"
I'm hot!
- Mr. Tanjiro!
- Where'd you run off to?
- [gasps]
- We have to train again!
If you slack off
after one good day,
you'll be back
where you started!
Remember, "Persistence
prevails when all else fails!"
"Slow and steady wins the race!"
Mr. Tanjiro, where are you?
- Nezuko, let's go!
- Mr. Tanjiro,
- where are you hiding, huh?!
- Mmm!